I"><p>Ah, well, what introduction does one need to the City of Splendours?! The spirling northern metropolis is home to over 130,000 people (only, perhaps, half of which are shady), which means there is much adventure to be had for humble homebodies and budding adventurers alike! As well as being able to cater to every form of <em>ahem</em> pleasure and delight available, due to its vast size Waterdeep can also manage to cater to almost every budget imaginable - very helpful for those parties not quite as accomplished as others.</p>

<p>Here are my top recommendations to experience the true nature of Waterdeep, the first is to obtain the services of some horses and a carriage for the day. Trust me: you’ll want to save your strength for socialising, and the extra boot space for carrying your many purchases will really come in handy.</p>

<p><span class="p3">Hospitality</span>
<span class="psong">The Yawning Portal:</span> Sometimes, an inn can be excellent on account of its service and ale, or because of it’s gimmick. The Yawning Portal serves up the two in perfect synergy. You will be incredibly well catered after by the legendary Durnan and his staff: food, beverages and the bathhouse are to die for. However, as the tavern is built above the entryway to the Undermountain - so one day you may have to literally die for the fare. 
The Gagging Frog: The city’s hottest new tavern, offering up wholesome delicious fare (we assume), and outstanding beers (probably) and magical wines (confirmed). Although often mentioned in tandem with not so exciting and hip words like old, human and cleric, do not disregard the inn too quickly! The Gagging Frog is set to be the premier establishment in the North Ward, and is expected to be showcasing local entertainment, running gambling evenings as well as hoping to make a name for themselves as the most hospitable hosts in all of Waterdeep! I mean, what tavern is so cool to have passed up the opportunity to have the front-of-house ran by a friendly ghost? This place! Don’t mind the dwarven ranger in the corner, she looks at everyone like that… Expecting to be opening in the next few weeks - look out for the official opening evening advertised in the Waterdeep Wazoo sometime soon!</p>

<p>Shopping 
Brian the Sword Master’s Smithy: Do you like your weapons to be sold at outrageously beefy veterans, at almost ridiculous wholesale prices? Then Brian is your man! The armoury is incredibly well kitted out with all the essentials that any budding adventurer could require and cannot be missed, being located on Brian’s Street in the Dock Ward. Finer quality at a reasonable price will be hard to find elsewhere in Waterdeep. Will consider part-exchange on goods, and does accept magical weapons. 
Thorgan’s: At first glance, Thorgan Gorban’s cellar looks like a cosy welcome sight as you wander the streets of the North Ward, looking for something other than an ale to soothe your aching bones and burning heart. However, this boutique bar offers the only organic, free range mushroom wine in the city - and even better, it is delicious. The earthy notes are cut through with glorious amber sweetness, the perfect accompaniment to the new trend snack sweeping the town: potato flakes. Come for the hipster wine, stay for the mechanical hover chamber. 
The Market: As with any good city guide, please let me direct you straight to The Market, located in the middle of the Castle, North and Sea Wards. The market is always a hive of activity, and your senses will be assaulted by a menagerie of colourful stalls, and even more colourful language as the local populace barter, argue and obtain the freshest produce available. Take the time when you are here to indulge your nose: perhaps a lucky perception check will lead you to a local street vendor selling the local regional dish of melverfew (you will thank yourself if you eat first, ask questions later). Sunday’s offer a local antique market, well worth the trip if you have an intimidating friend or two to help lower the price. 
The Old Xoblob Shop: The most curious curiosity shop in the entire continent. This is not the type of place you should enter with a specific item in mind. Tip your hat to the stuffed Beholder in the window (a gesture of good will), and enter to be dazzled by Old Xoblob himself, apparently. If you have a penchant for being upsold useless but entirely enjoyable trinkets and the colour purple - you are going to have a really good time. If you spend enough time there, you could be hot boxed by the Deep Gnome himself, such is his hookah smoking prowess. Xoblob is known to be a wholly generous businessman, who doesn’t punish any patrons who bring their borrowed items back weeks after the agreed time, so that’s nice…</p>

<p>Culture
The Walking Statues of Waterdeep: These eight colossal statues are undoubtedly the most iconic features of the city, and are essential viewing for any visitor. Once acting as great ethereal guardians of the city, they now stand silent in their watch and act as excellent navigational landmarks throughout the city. Speak to your carriage driver, he shall no doubt be able to incorporate a visit to these statues in your journey around the city. 
Lightsinger Theatre: As Waterdeep is a vastly wealthy city, the arts have strong footing within the city in all their forms. The ostentatious building is truly gaudy, but does house some of the most exquisite operatic talent in the whole of Faerûn. If available, do book the box seats - it is common to meet some interesting folk at the theatre…
Vicious Vixen: The Black Viper Walking Tour: You’ve read the stories, and you have heard of the legend. Now walk (literally) in the footsteps of Waterdeep’s infamous Black Viper! This interactive tour of the locations of the crimes is presented by Waterdhavian local Chomsky Timbers, whose understanding of the art of the Black Viper (bordering on sheer fanboying) will have you hooked. Finish your tour at The Gagging Frog, for a complimentary shot of ‘The Black Death’.</p>

<p>Oh! And did you know that the Mayor of the city Maxine is a horse? A world first, we think. Or incorrect.</p>

:ET